# INTRODUCTION

A tabletop roleplaying game (TTRPG or RPG) is not just a game; it's a collaborative storytelling experience. These games bring together a group of players, usually more than two - although soloplay is also an option - to embark on adventures in a fictional setting, much like a novel, TV series, or movie.

## What is Sundered Shadows?

*Sundered Shadows* (SSRPG) is a return to non-tactical, theatre-of-the-mind gameplay. It is a rules-lite, d20-based ruleset designed for storytelling, danger, and action flow. Yet, it allows for a sundry of character features, supplemental rules, and tons of gear. *Sundered Shadows* plays fast and loose, and although maps and miniatures can be used, most game aids are minimal.

> ***Theatre-of-the-Mind.*** This style of play is where everything in-game is wholly imagined, taking place in the players' minds, and is at the heart of Sundered Shadows. Here, the group can experience interactive adventures through the back-and-forth storytelling between the gamemaster and the players. Many modern rulesets rely on tactical rules that get in the way, interfering with the game's flow. These games use plotted landscapes, or virtual tabletops (VTTs), that are excessively tactical; it's like playing a video game in slow motion. Theatre-of-the-mind is non-tactical and allows players and gamemasters to describe actions in quick detail without worrying about the tactical rules. Although handouts, maps, and basic miniature placement can be used, theatre-of-the-mind allows gaming groups to concentrate more on the storylines, descriptions, and characterizations. This provides an opportunity to visualize and respond to everything in more detail and less time, allowing for more productive and enjoyable game sessions. In addition, the gamemaster will spend less time preparing the tools of the trade for each adventure. Many consider this mind’s eye approach the quintessential gaming style!

## Who Plays What?

The players handle the actions of the protagonists - a.k.a. player characters (PC or PCs), the heroes trying to survive and thrive during the adventures. However, one player serves as the gamemaster (GM), whose sole job is to create and manage the adventures, plus narrate the actions of the antagonists - a.k.a. non-player characters (NPC or NPCs) - including all beasts, bosses, and powers-that-be. Although it's the gamemaster's job to create and run the adventures, it's everyone's job to create an atmosphere of fun. Together, the gamemaster and the players co-write the ongoing storyline from each person's - or character's - point of view. The storyline is created from the minds of the gamemaster, the players, and the outcomes of each dice roll.

>***Gamemaster's Discretion.*** One of the most critical aspects of *Sundered Shadows* is that the gamemaster arbitrates everything and has the final say over ANY rule, decision, or situation. If the GM wishes to pass judgment, change, or houserule anything in the game - on the spot - that is within the GM's purview. However, it's always best to set expectations and discuss any homebrewed rule changes before playing; a session zero can be used this way.

## What do I need to play?

A few supplies are needed to use this ruleset; these items can be physical, digital, or combined. Typically, a playgroup will draw maps, take notes, and track their character's stats; see `Appendix XX` for various game aids and sheets. Also, the playgroup will need gaming dice, ideally a set for each person.

### The Dice

This ruleset uses gaming dice to validate a character’s actions during gameplay. A handful of dice will be needed, typically consisting of a 4-sided die (d4), 6-sided die (d6), 8-sided die (d8), 10-sided die (d10), 12-sided die (d12), 20-sided die (d20), and percentile dice (d100).

> ***Dice Expressions and Pools.*** When multiples of the same die type are described in the text, called dice pools, the number of dice to roll will appear before the die type. For example, three 6-sided dice (d6) are written as *3d6*.
> ***Percentile Dice (d100).*** This die type comprises two 10-sided dice of different colors or styles. One die represents the "tens" position, and the other represents the "ones" position, designated which is which beforehand. Rolled together, the dice will generate a percentile number from 01% to 99%, and a roll of "00" (double zeros) on the dice equals 100%.

#### Advantage

Per the gamemaster, advantage (ADV) may apply to any single die roll or when using multiples of dice (dice pools). Under such circumstances, add an extra die to the roll and use the higher results; discard the low die.

#### Disadvantage

Per the gamemaster, disadvantage (DIS) may apply to any single die roll or when using multiples of dice (dice pools). Under such circumstances, add an extra die to the roll and use the lower results; discard the high die.

## Conventions

These customary conventions are practiced throughout the ruleset.

***Specific Beats General.*** You may find aspects of the rules that break or contradict other elements. When a contradiction occurs, specific rules often beat general rules; however, the gamemaster will arbitrate as needed.

***Always Round Down.*** Unless specified in the rules, when you divide any number, you will always round down, no matter the fraction; a minimum of 1 always applies.

***Terminology.*** Terms are defined throughout this ruleset. Where a term is used but not defined, browse the [[Manuscript/Backmatter/99.7 - Index|Index]] in the back of the material for its source.