# ==INTRODUCTION==

A tabletop roleplaying game (TTRPG or RPG) is a collaborative storytelling pastime involving a playgroup of at least two players, though more players are typical. Together, this association plays through adventures in a fictional setting similar to a novel, TV series, or movie.

*Sundered Shadows RPG* attempts to bring a lite and minimalistic ruleset designed for storytelling and action flow yet allows for remarkable detail with many character features and equipment options. By its very nature, this ruleset is a classic non-tactical "theatre of the mind" game, meaning it runs a bit looser and faster than other number-crunching game systems. Although maps and miniatures can be utilized, most game aids are deliberately minimal.

> ***Theatre of the Mind.*** This style of play is where everything in-game is wholly imagined and takes place in the players' minds. Here, the group can experience interactive adventures through the back-and-forth storytelling between the gamemaster and the players. Many groups rely on a mix of game aids, handouts, and maps, but at its core rests the detailed descriptions and visualizations of ‘theatre of the mind.’ Some consider this mind’s eye approach the quintessential gaming style.
>
> If adequately utilized, theatre of the mind allows gaming groups to concentrate more on the storylines, descriptions, and characterizations, visualizing and responding to everything in more detail and less time, allowing for more productive and enjoyable game sessions. In addition, the gamemaster will spend less time preparing the tools of the trade for each adventure.

## Duties

To summarize, in a playgroup, one person serves as the gamemaster whose sole job is to create, manage, and narrate the adventures, including the dialogue, behavior, and schemes of the non-player characters (NPCs), which consist of all `supporting roles`, villains, and beasts. All others in the group are players responsible for the actions of their player characters (PCs), the heroes trying to survive and thrive during the adventures. However, the gamemaster and the players genuinely co-write the ongoing campaign from each person's - or character's - point of view.

## Aesthetics

This ruleset is designed to be campaign neutral and utilized in any world-building project the gamemaster can imagine or wish to construct. As such, specific references and descriptions are deliberately vague or absent from this material.

For more features and options, advanced game materials are available for download at our official website, including adventures, campaigns, and supplements.

### This Game IS ... 

<!--Add copy here -->

### This Game IS NOT ... 

<!--Add copy here -->

## Supplies

A few materials and tools are needed to utilize this ruleset; these items can be physical, digital, or a combination; however, always check with your gamemaster first, as there may be specific requirements for your game.

Typically, a game group will need a copy of the rules, note/graph paper, pencils, plenty of character record sheets - see `Appendix $$` for these sheets - and a set of gaming dice for each person. Maps and miniatures are optional; see your gamemaster for more information.

Various digital record forms and even pre-generated characters are available for download at our official website.

### Dice

This ruleset utilizes gaming dice to validate a character’s actions during gameplay; a handful of dice will be needed, as in a 4-sided die (d4), 6-sided die (d6), 8-sided die (d8), 12-sided die (d12), and 20-sided die (d20); a pair of 10-sided die (d10) will also be required. Utilizing the d10 pair, one can also roll a d100 (a.k.a. percentile dice). Ideally, each player and the gamemaster should have a complete set of dice, though you could use less; however, the more dice available, the smoother the play.

> ***Dice Expressions.*** When multiples of the same die type are described in the text, the number of dice will appear before the die type. For example, two 6-sided dice (d6) are written as *2d6*. Other dice expressions include Advantage and Disadvantage; see `Gameplay` for more information.
>
> ***Percentile Dice (d100).*** This die type consists of two 10-sided dice, where one die represents the "tens" position, and the other represents the "ones" position. Rolled together, the dice will generate a percentile number from 01% to 99%, and a roll of 100% is seen as "00" (double zeros) on the dice.

## Conventions

These customary conventions are practiced throughout this ruleset.

***Specific Beats General.*** You may find aspects of the rules that break or contradict other elements. When a contradiction occurs, specific rules often beat general rules; however, the gamemaster will arbitrate as needed.

***Always Round Down.*** Unless specified in the rules, when you divide any number, you will always round down, no matter the fraction.

<!--Add more Conventions as needed-->



==WORK IN PROGRESS==
