# Action!

Most roleplaying games have a set of dice mechanics to determine the performance and effectiveness of character actions; this is the engine that drives all roleplaying games.

## Action Check

When a character is challenged, attempts something new or difficult, or when the outcome is in question, the director will likely request an `Action Check`.

Once an action check has been declared, two opposing d9 dice pools are called for; the player rolls the `Advantage Pool`, and the director rolls the `Disadvantage Pool`; when these two dice pools are rolled simultaneously, they constitute the `Action Check`.

> ***Tasks.*** Tasks have separate processes and steps to determine success or failure. `See Tasks for more information.`

### Action Effectiveness

Once the action check is rolled, the single highest die is selected from each pool while the rest are discarded. Any `modifiers` are then applied to each die accordingly, potentially improving the performances and swaying the odds in either direction. `See Modifiers for more information.`

Next, the results are compared. The difference between the two performances represents the action's effectiveness, the final number being a benefit or hindrance to the character's action. `See Action Results for more information.`

***Success.*** The action is effective if the final performance is higher on the advantage die.

***Failure.*** The action is ineffective if the final performance is higher on the disadvantage die.

***Inconclusive.*** The action is inconclusive if the final outcome is a tie - a performance of 0 (zervo). Such a performance constitutes a `fail-forward` situation where the character may opt to spend an `action point` to succeed; otherwise, the action is ineffective. `See Action Points for more information.`
